#labels Documentation
= VEGAS version 1.4 =

Vegas is an OpenSource Framework based on ECMASCript.

==Description==

You can use the same framework in ActionScript 3,2,1 and <b>SSAS</b> to deploy your RIAs.

With Vegas you can use 5 other libraries based on VEGAS : AndromedAS, PEGAS, ASGard, LunAS, CalistA. 

This 5 libraries are in the SVN repository of VEGAS. 

PS : VEGAS version 1 is final but the next version of VEGAS launch the "fusion" with the *Maashaack* framework.

 * http://code.google.com/p/maashaack/

||<wiki:gadget url="http://www.ohloh.net/projects/vegas/widgets/project_basic_stats.xml" height="220"  border="0" />||<wiki:gadget url="http://www.ohloh.net/projects/maashaack/widgets/project_basic_stats.xml" height="220"  border="0" />||

==Install VEGAS==

 * [InstallVEGASwithSVN Install the SVN VEGAS sources with TortoiseSVN (AS2 and AS3)]
 * Download the sources with the top-level SVN repository : http://vegas.googlecode.com/svn

==Documentation==

 * [TutorialsVEGAS Tutorials]
 * [http://www.ekameleon.net/vegas/docs/ Documentation online] 
 * [http://wiki.mediabox.fr/tutoriaux/vegas French tutorials]

==Examples==

For the moment in the Subversion repository of VEGAS. (in progress) 

 * [http://vegas.googlecode.com/svn/AS3/trunk/bin/test/ AS3 Flash CS3 examples] 
 * [http://vegas.googlecode.com/svn/AS2/trunk/bin/test/ AS2 Flash examples] 

*NB :* Use your SVN client to update this examples (read the installation tutorial) but you can use the "export" process of your SVN client to manipulate all examples.

==Licence==

 * [http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mozilla1.1.php Mozilla Public License 1.1 (MPL1.1)]

==About==

 * Version : 1.4
 * Author  : ALCARAZ Marc (aka eKameleon)
 * Link : http://www.ekameleon.net/blog
 * Mail : ekameleon@gmail.com

==FEATURES LIST==

===VEGAS===

 * AS3, SSAS and AS2 Framework.
 * Unit Test based on ASTUce.
 * AS2 librairie is “MTASC compatible” !
 * Ready to use EDEN.
 * SSAS library based on Core2 and EDEN.
 * ADT (Abstract Data Type) package in AS2, AS3 ans SSAS libraries (queue, map, collections, stack, bag, iterator, ... polymorphism with JAVA Collections)
 * Events package : Event's model based on W3C Dom2 with bubbling, capturing etc + FrontController pattern.
 * String tools : JSON, Eden serialization/deserialization, Lunh, wildcard, StringFormat...
 * Tools : Serializer, Copier, ArrayUtil, etc..
 * Logging model to use SOS console, LuminicBox FlashInspector, XPanel... AS2 logging model use polymorphism with mx.logging package in AS3 framework.
 * Pattern MVC : 3 implementations with a FrontController or IView, IModel and IController or IObservable/IObserver implementation.
 * Pattern Visitor interfaces (IVisitor, IVisitable).
 * Factory tools (DisplayObjectFactory, ContextMenuItemFactory...)

===AndromedAS===

 * [http://code.google.com/p/andromed-as/ AndromedA page project (Google Code)]

A library based on MVC tools (for the moment) to develop richmedia applications and creates the link between VEGAS and ASGard.

This library implement a full IOC package based on the Spring.net, AS3 Indigo framework and Eden the ECMAScript data exchange notation.

===PEGAS===

 * [http://code.google.com/p/pegas/ PEGAS page project (Google Code)]

 * Color Manipulation.
 * draw API tools (ArcPen, BezierPen, RectanglePen, Canvas....)
 * Transitions package (Tween, ..)
 * *geom* package with flash.geom polymorphism for FP7 & FP8 and other tool class (Vertex, Vector2, Vector3, Quaternion...)
 * Maths tools (Prime, Factor, Range...)
 * Process package (Sequencer & Action).
 * UI package. (KeyValidator, DoubleClick...)

===ASGard===

 * [http://code.google.com/p/as-gard/ ASGard page project (Google Code)]

AS3 version :

 * Date and time tools.
 * Config pattern.
 * Localization and system package.
 * Display custom tools.
 * Configuration model.
 * media package with extended video, sound and stream class.
 * Tool text package (StyleSheet, ...)
 * Net tools (remoting, eden and json loader, etc)

AS2 version :

 * AS3 Framework polymorphism.
 * Display package (Bitmap, DisplayObject, DisplayLoader, FlashPaperLoader, VideoDisplay, ZoomDisplay...)
 * Loader package (URLLoader, JSONLoader, EdenLoader, StyleSheetLoader...)
 * Remoting package with no Macromedia Framework’s dependencies.
 * Localization and system package
 * Configuration model.
 * Text Package (StyleSheet, ...) like AS3 flash.text framework.

In the SSAS(Server Side ActionScript) version for Flash Media Server :

 * The same Remoting class like AS2 and AS3 libraries.
 * asgard.server.Application class to creates your FMS application based on VEGAS.
 * asgard.server.Gateway class to creates a Gateway based on the FrontController of Vegas (used AS2 Event in the client application and send this events with the NetConnection.call method directly in the server side FrontController.


===LunAS===

This library based on ASGard and VEGAS to create components. It's not a component of framework but a framework to make components.

 * [http://code.google.com/p/lun-as/ LunAS page project (Google Code)] 

Use examples in AS2/bin/test/lunas to test this framework.

 * *bar* package : Progressbar, scrollbar...
 * *button* package
 * *container* package : SimpleContainer, ListContainer, ScrollContainer, AutoScrollContainer, MatrixContainer...
 * *cell* package : cells in list and datagrids
 * *list* package : List components based on containers and with a polymophism with mx package of macromedia.
 * *shape* package : all shape components.
 * *stepper* package : basic implementation to create Stepper components.
 * *text* package : Label, TextArea and TextInput abstract implementation.

===CalistA===

 * [http://code.google.com/p/calista/ CalistA page project (Google Code)] 

CalistA is a little cryptography library written in Actionscript include in the VEGAS framework with SHA1, TEA, MD5, LZW, Base64 and Base8 algorithms.

=== MarS ===

This extension is an opensource helper library based on *VEGAS* (only AS2 for the moment) and this extensions to create Rich Applications with all basic tools.

===ASTr'O===

ActionScript Template application framework based on VEGAS. This opensource library contains a skeletal to implement rich application with VEGAS and this extensions. For the moment this library is an experimental laboratory to implements a concrete example with VEGAS.

 * Download the sources of this project in the Google Code page : http://code.google.com/p/astr/


==Requirements==

You can use my library in your projects with :

 * AS2 : Flash MX2004 or Flash8 or Flash CS3/CS4.
 * AS2 : [http://www.mtasc.org/ MTASC]
 * AS2 : [http://www.eclipse.org/ Eclipse] and [http://fdt.powerflasher.com/ FDT]
 * AS3 : [http://www.adobe.com/products/flex/sdk/ Flex SDK].

 * SSAS : *FC 1.5* or *Flash Media Server 2* or *Flash Media Server 3*
 * SSAS : [http://fczone.com/eclipse/ FMS Eclipse]
 * SSAS : [http://labs.adobe.com/technologies/jseclipse/ JSEclipse]

== Thanks ==

 * [http://zwetan.com/ Zwetan] : ECMAScript Concepts, all discussions and hosting 
 * [http://powerflasher.com/ PowerFlasher] and [http://fdt.powerflasher.com FDT] OpenSource Licence.